this video isn't part of reply to a
couple of people who got into a
conversation with me on reddit about
learning Chinese and being vegan in
China veganism in Chinese culture and
Western culture being contrasted and
it's partly a video reflecting more
broadly on the changing culture of the
internet itself if you've talked to
vegans or you've looked at vegan stuff
in the internet you may or may not have
heard this phrase kind of like a slogan
that really rubbed some people the wrong
way that really has a negative effect on
some people including some vegans some
vegans like to say veganism is not a
diet as the significantly everything
from saying veganism is not just the
diet but the veganism is not a diet at
all now of course veganism is a type of
food but one of the reasons why some
vegans say this too the sugar and or
confusion of other vegans is because of
this type of cultural concept this is
hun as in puncha so in Chinese culture
that's the traditional character that's
the simplified character the the bottom
half of the character at the bottom 2/3
is the same as the Chinese character for
the military I got these guys on reddit
writing to me saying that I was dead
wrong in my use of the Chinese language
I was dead wrong when I was saying about
veganism first and foremost because
sucia in Chinese should be contrasted to
Hunza that the character I just showed
you this concept of hood ironically this
overlaps with one of the other things
people found offensive or problematic in
my earlier video in Chinese starting
with veganism which is that that video
openly reviles traditional Buddhist
concepts that may resemble veganism but
that are not in fact vegan digestion
woman yo Fujio to tomliboo churro dancer
Tom and Julia shang-chi the CC Infanta
Yosha function to do the jewy so why
would any vegan go around saying
veganism is not a diet when we all know
there is such a thing as a vegan
restaurant the researcher thing is a
vegan menu or a vegan option vegan vegan
is definitely a type of food in this
type of label
that's on food and it's a way of eating
and yet so many vegans go around saying
veganism is not a diet um well the
people in this reddit group were
approaching me as if I don't know what
I'm talking about and they know what
they're talking about they're the
experts because they've never googled
this they've never given this five
minutes of thought they're not freaking
they don't care about the issue but they
think from their position of expertise
that I'm feeling to appreciate the
opposite of vegan is Hunza and therefore
I shouldn't refer to people eating
animal products and using animal things
animal stuff because some of the wording
of my video is very vague this way I
didn't use the character they were
telling me to use the character and
cultural concepts on news which is again
hon Chun soo Xiang Bo dowdy Shoshanna
Chun soo Yong ho Joe Shibuya man hodong
hodong C sahib usual noon I didn't roll
you shell Matranga cha da da da chuan da
dong goo da dong Shi Quan boo no boo
Yong su e P yang mal from me
Jessie dough boo Yong but this character
is not what you think it is
it's really quite antithetical to both
the theory and practice of veganism all
right now point out reply oh yeah you
think I should be using this character
one leather shoes leather shoes were
discussed in my earlier video or leather
shoes hun or sue it's totally outside of
this cultural paradigm right sucia the
idea of eating sue in Buddhist culture
Confucian culture traditional Chinese
culture this concept doesn't challenge
in any way the use of leather
what about riding horses with a Zhang
Zhang Disha Shanda mega Guo Jia Jie mama
Naga goo GAA o ma na Go Go G Ibuki in
Tsui Pookie Zhang son rather
Jedi Jia Shula woman Busia Chima woman
busu Yau her noona hicieron Chan Chan
Chan soo ji sugar ghoul
to thankfui danxia jjigae gender Joe
sure see and I won t to Diane so riding
horses came up and this was another
thing that offended or confused some
people from the reply a point out that
if you have a really vegan Society
nobody's riding horses nobody's using
horses in this way
exploitation domesticated animals is
also country to veganism but it's not
contrary to this concept of fun and then
on the flip side of that there are
plenty of foods that are vegan that if
he ins do eat but that are excluded by
this concept of horn honcho okay so of
traditional Buddhists would reject as
Winship would reject as not acceptable
for a Buddha said they will reject
garlic they able to reject onions they
would reject a list of vegetables that I
could tell you the origin of this and
Buddhism it's really based on both a
mistranslation and a misunderstanding of
something in Pali and Sanskrit in
ancient Indian Buddhism of course
Buddhists in India all ate garlic still
to this day Buddhist in India eat garlic
but Buddhists in China due to this myths
and misunderstanding and mistranslation
they think that Buddhism requires you to
refuse to eat garlic right now of course
from a vegan perspective garlic is
entirely vegan whereas leather shoes are
not riding horses it's not and on all of
these issues I got these really
self-righteous sanctimonious people who
believe their level of Chinese is better
than mine and it probably is better than
mine probably the people writing to me
they speak Chinese better than I do
they've studied Chinese longer than I
have I've studied for seven months okay
I studied for seven months in Kunming at
a very high level of intensity and you
know relative to the level when I
arrived in the school many of the
teachers said it was basically
astounding how fast I rose to the level
that I'm now at which is a level where I
can you know answer normal questions and
buy groceries and go to restaurants and
read the menu and complain to the waiter
is this or is this not vegan because if
you are vegan even if you speak Chinese
at a really low level of ability the
thing you are most practiced in most
adept in is exactly explaining to
waiters and other other waiters and
people in grocery stores that you're
vegan asking whether
not for example a vegetable dumpling and
it contains vegetables that are the
vegetables cooked in pork fat asking
these kinds of questions about trace
ingredients and invisible ingredients
and things explaining the concept of
veganism in Chinese is the one area of
this language
I am vastly more practiced at than
anyone else in this discussion even
though I only studied Chinese for seven
months and I lived there for less than
two years right in this stint of time
where I was studying Chinese okay I did
actually live in China during other
periods of my life but during those
other periods I was studying other
languages like lotion Cambodian poly
I was not studying Chinese as a language
during the earlier prayers my life in
which I lived in Taiwan Hong Kong right
so this is the kind of fundamental
problem I encountered with the internet
again and again reproachful
self-appointed experts I posted this
video my earlier video on veganism in
Chinese in reddit in the first place
just with the humble statement
hey I'm vegan I'm studying Chinese and
I'm trying to meet other people who are
the same other people with the same
interest I'm trying to meet other vegans
who are studying Chinese or you could
say other students learning Chinese who
also have to be vegan
I'm just looking people I didn't claim
to be an expert I didn't claim to be
flew into the language I just said I was
a student and when people asked me how
long have you been studying and they
sometimes asked in an insulting way one
guys later deleted his comment he said
my elocution was terrible how long have
I been studying the language I was like
oh well when I made that video and all
I've been studying for a couple of
months that was me halfway through
myself months of education in the
language so no I don't have things to be
an expert what have you but for those of
us who are trying to use the internet in
a sincere way to make connections to
make something positive happen to
cooperate in Clevedon that's what this
particular reddit group is created for
it's for language exchange in language
learning right to deal with this kind of
cynical hostility from self exploring it
with some foreign experts who never even
looked into it I had this one guy of
approaching me at length claiming that
riding horses is vegan and therefore my
video makes no sense and Rebecca say no
no this is one of the differences
between vegan and being nearly
vegetarian vegans don't just oppose
eating
smeet like killing horse news meat we
also oppose domesticating and riding the
horse we domestic castrating the horse
it's head of etc they're all these other
things we oppose any kind of animal use
is forbidden by veganism and again
that's why a lot of these Chinese terms
don't fit and guys the script for that
earlier video I did where I'm speaking
Chinese I wrote it I wrote the original
script but I handed it to two chinese
professors who went through it and gave
me corrections repeatedly we did several
rounds of corrections on this thing and
one of those two professors is herself
vegan other terminology i got directly
out of reading pamphlets written in
chinese that provided me with examples
of how chinese people themselves explain
veganism in a pamphlet when one chinese
person is trying to convince another to
become vegan so you know the fact that i
use terms like animal product instead of
contrasting this traditional concept of
hood concha please you know please what
is the point anyway look for some people
the internet is you know a windowless
room in which they can just stand alone
and shout at an imaginary crowd a lot of
people use tumblr that way and my
girlfriend was joking the other day she
was saying why do people use tumblr the
hue Stumbler so that they can post their
real feelings about things without
anyone else knowing it like in contrast
to facebook where they wanted just
anonymously vent their their feelings
about this is a stereotype of a tumblr
tumblr is a website you can use it to
express any kind of opinion you want to
um but i do encounter this all the time
and it is for me both saddening and kind
of hilarious people try to behave as if
they're experts on Buddhism when they're
not people trying to behave like they're
experts on veganism when they're not
people try to be able if they're experts
on the Chinese language when they are
not and this kind of veneer of false
expertise ultimately getting the way the
way of the friendly and productive use
of the Internet of someone like me just
coming on and saying hey here's a
YouTube video I made of me talking about
veganism in Chinese me speaking Chinese
on camera I'm vegan I'm a student I'm
looking for others people with common
interests who are also studying Chinese
we could talk on skype we could you know
practice Chinese together hit me up
donnchadh Abu Honduran book
nineteen JK a woman the jungle dojo in
way running Buju whoo woman gun
releasing dodging you Guan Zhong Zhi
Jing pushes water and collaborating
relevant order tonsure honduran each
show yo you do Jada Robo needed ow
J go rogue on girl sure here other whoa
bony kernel trading Ning guy
ablution